Jace Stevenson

1. How can Jarnik's algorithm be re-configured to find the maximum-spanning-tree instead of the minimum-spanning-tree?


2. How is a minimum-spanning-tree different from a solution to The Traveling Salesman problem?
The TSP (traveling salesman problem) is a loop while mst is a tree

3. Rewrite 5 vertices from the weighted graph cityGraph2 from test.cpp in adjacency matrix form.
You can enter a text table yourself in your answers file,
or copy and paste a text table from https://www.tablesgenerator.com/text_tables or add an additional image/spreadsheet
file to your repository or put a link in question 3 to a Google Sheet. It's your call.
Seattle->Chicago
Chicago->Detroit
Detroit->Washington
San Francisco->Los Angeles
Los Angeles->Riverside
A. Seattle
B. Chicago
C. Detroit
D. Washington
E. San Francisco
F. Los Angeles
G. Riverside

y axis - to
x axis - from

  A B C D E F G
A 0 1 0 0 0 0 0
B 0 0 1 0 0 0 0
C 0 0 0 1 0 0 0
D 0 0 0 0 1 0 0
E 0 0 0 0 0 1 0
F 0 0 0 0 0 0 1
G 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

4. What is the Big-O time complexity of Jarnik's algorithm when a priority queue (binary heap) is used? What about when it is not used?Why is there a difference?
According to https://medium.com/@yankuan/time-complexity-of-creating-a-heap-or-priority-queue-fd23bcaefb83
Creating an empty heap / priority queue takes O(n * log n ) which is the difference between when it is used and not used.

5. Why is Jarnik's algorithm a greedy algorithm?
Because it makes locally optimal decision in hope that the decision is globally optimal.
For jarnik it is locally optimal shortest paths that will hopefully become optimal shortest paths.

6. Jarnik's algorithm is commonly known as Prim's algorithm, even though Jarnik discovered it and published it decades before Prim rediscovered it.
Research another algorithm that has a different common name from its original discoverer. What is the purpose of the algorithm and why did its original
creator not get credit?
Boruvka's Algorithm https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bor%C5%AFvka's_algorithm

Boruvka originally created the algorithm but it went through 7 rediscoveries eventually now being called
Sollin's algorithm being rediscovered most recently by Georges Sollin in 1965. The algorithm is used to find minimum spanning trees like jarniks
but it does it in a different way. From what was written It seems to be decently similar although there is no visit function, and it also
assumes there are no repeated weights otherwise an extra function must be created.
